= IsTheWebsiteDown

IsTheWebsiteDown is a simple Sinatra app that displays an overview of websites and if they are down or not. The list of websites can be configured via a text file. See config/sites.txt.example for an example. Rename it to config/sites.txt to start using it.

This is a prototype I threw together in a couple of hours, to see how Sinatra works and how easy or hard a simple monitor page would be to build.

== Requirements

* Sinatra: http://github.com/sinatra/sinatra
* Future: http://github.com/Narnach/future
* Haml: http://github.com/nex3/haml

== Recent changes

== Version 0.2.0
* Sort websites by hostname on load
* Display monitored URLs by hostname
* Also catch SocketError, which occurs if a hostname can not be resolved
* Add missing comma
* Rescue SystemCallError when Net::HTTP raises it
* Configured public dir and root dir
* Added favicon
* Docfix: typo
* Docfix: Installation instructions explain how to install/config/start the app
* Remove rake tasks to build the non-existent gem
* Docfix: requirements should not be a one-liner

== Version 0.1.0
* Added more URLs to sites.txt.example
* Detect a missing sites.txt file
* Added link to footer
* Upped timeout from 1 to 2 seconds
* Split CSS into its own file
* Working prototype
* Don't build a gem, run the code directly

== Version 0.0.2
* Actually display the page with sites
* Added simple overview page with hard-coded google url
* Updated gem description
* Updated readme with simple description

=== Version 0.0.1
* Created project

== Installation
=== From git

Obtain the source code from github:
  git clone http://github.com/Narnach/is_the_website_down
  cd is_the_website_down
  cp config/sites.txt.example config/sites.txt

Edit config/sites.txt and replace the example with sites you want to monitor.
Start the app:
  bin/is_the_website_down
Then open your browser and check http://localhost:4567

== Todo
Things that are needed or just neat to implement:
* Move website status checking to a background thread that periodically pokes each website
   * Periodically store status to a file or database
* Display an uptime/downtime history in words: "www.google.com has been up for at least 7 days and 23 hours",  "mail.google.com has been down for 3 hours, before that it was up for over 7 days and 20 hours"
* Add an RSS feed
* Tag websites and display sites per tag
  * Each tag can get its own RSS feed
* Add a login or 'private' URL that shows the status of non-public websites and services.
* Tests: those are always good once you know what want to do.

== About
IsTheWebsiteDown was created by Wes Oldenbeuving. It is licensed under the MIT license.
